---
title:  "Gender vs. Sex"
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories: media
---

Sex is traditionally categorized as female or male, but there is significant variation in the biological attributes that comprise sex and how those attributes are expressed. Gender, on the other hand, refers to the socially constructed roles, behaviors, expressions, and identities of girls, women, boys, men, and gender-diverse people.

It has become common for people to confuse the two terms, mistakenly believing they are synonymous. When discussing sex, they are often actually referring to gender, and vice versa. 

Consider the following example:

"Many speakers (often male) seem to enjoy the sound of their own voice, happily talking for hours without imparting much of value. Conversely, there are many individuals (often female) who significantly underestimate the value of their work, their learning, and their insights." - Chris Anderson

Now, read the sentence above more carefully. Does this statement refer to "female" or "women"? Are males and females biologically predisposed to differ in their willingness and ability to speak?

I don't think so. 

Being female does not prevent one from confidently expressing herself. However, societal expectations placed on women and girls often do.

You can find more answer below:

"The belief that men are by nature aggressive and belligerent but protectors--like the Roman god of war, Mars--and women are emotive, beautiful, vain, and fertile--like the goddess of love, Venus--is commen. Such a beleft is often rooted in stories about human evolution and offered as an explannation of why men and women have different jobs, different capacities, and different participation in politics and industry.

## This is a dangerous myth."

- From the book, [*Sapiens*](https://www.sapiens.org/biology/busting-myths-about-sex-and-gender/)

We must be more critical, regardless of gender, of the stories we are told to believe. A widely held belief does not necessarilly make it accurate. 

*--The longevity or popularity of a belief doesn't ensure its truthfulness.--*
